h1. MPlayerX-Localization instruction

h2. INTRO

Welcome to MPlayerX-Localization Project.
This is a sub-project of MPlayerX, which is a open-source media player project on Mac OS X. You could take a look at http://github.com/niltsh/MPlayerX
This is the document will help you to understand how to make a localization package of MPlayerX.
There is also a svn repo at http://code.google.com/p/mplayerx-localization/ and this git repo was started at r50 of the svn repo.

h2. REPO STRUCTURE

┬─ root
├┬─ 1.0.0
│├─ English.lproj
│└─ zh_CN.lproj
├┬─ 1.0.1
│├─ English.lproj
│└─ zh_CN.lproj
├── ...

h2. BASIC WORKFLOW

# With every release, the [version number] folder will be created in the root.
# The <b>MASTER lproj</b> is <b>English.lproj</b>, [the project owner] will upload this lproj when the UI is finalized for every release.
# Basically, English.lproj will be uploaded only ONCE for every release. But there might be some incidence that [the project owner] have to update English.lproj.
# Every time the English.lproj was uploaded or updated, [the project owner] should email to all the contributors.
# The notification email should include.
** what were uploaded or updated.
** the branch in the MPlayerX repo for this update.
** the version number in the MPlayerX repo for this update.
# After received the email, the contributors could start the work any time(if not too late).
# Except [the project owner], It is PROHIBITED for contributors to modify any files in English.lproj.
# Contributors could create any files or folders for their own localization.
# Since the lproj folder has naming rules, if not known, please look into http://developer.apple.com/mac/library/documentation/MacOSX/Conceptual/BPInternational/Articles/LanguageDesignations.html
# There are two sorts of files contributors could upload or update, .xib or .strings.
** xib should be the raw, editable xib files. please DO NOT upload the compiled nib files.
** strings should be encoded by UTF-16.
# When contributors is going to finish the localization, there are two ways to let [the project owner] know.
** email to [the project owner]
** write some commit messages in the final commit.(PLEASE use English, rather than you own language, in the final commit)
# Contributors should be responsible for the test, [the project owner] may know nothing about the specific language.
# Finally, localization is really a lengthy job and need much much carefulness and patience.
  <b>I really appreciate your help and THANK YOU VERY VERY MUCH.</b>

h2. USAGE OF MAKEFILE

There is a template.Makfile, you could make the necessary lproj files with just a make command
# copy the *temple.Makefile* to [version number] folder
# rename it to Makefile
# in Terminal, goto the [version number] folder
# @make@
# the compiled lprojs will be placed in the *results/*

h2. INFO

2010/06/08 - now  [the project owner] = Zongyao QU, zongyao.qu@gmail.com

h2. Appendix

* *How to make a increment localization*
** For strings file
There is no better way.
Just use a difftool(such as FileMerge.app) to compare the latest untranslated file with the last version,
then merge the items you have translated.
** For xib files
Before start to translate, you could run this command to transfer your previous work to the new one.
@ibtool --previous-file {old master}/MyNib.nib --incremental-file {old translated}/MyNib.nib --localize-incremental --write {new translated}/MyNib.nib {new master}/MyNib.nib@
Then use InterfaceBuilder to open the xib files, in Menubar @Tools->Strings@, you could find all the items you should translate.

* For more info about how to localize to another language, please read
** The basic concepts
http://developer.apple.com/mac/library/documentation/MacOSX/Conceptual/BPInternational/BPInternational.html
** The toolchain
http://developer.apple.com/mac/library/documentation/DeveloperTools/Conceptual/IB_UserGuide/LocalizingNibFiles/LocalizingNibFiles.html
@man ibtool@
@man genstrings@